A. Yolanda

Yolanda is a graduate student having received their undergraduate degree in genetics around 5 years prior.  She is a wet lab scientist that works with mice.  She has little experience in bioinformatics but has used R to do basic analysis for her research.  Her research may include basic statistical analysis comparing two or more groups of mice based on outcomes of behaviour or the presence or absent of disease.  She has performed basic QTL mapping when she had 300 DO mice genotyped using the gigamuga array and has found some interesting sites.  Her lab has just received expression data and is looking to performed association analysis with these data too.  

This course will teach Person A how to perform QTL mapping to detect association across the genome for expression data. It will also introduce her to more complex coding and analysis that can be done in R.  It will also teach her how to plot the results and how to interpret them. 

B. Muhammad

Muhammad is a scientist who finished their PhD 5-10 years ago.  They are very versed in bioinformatics, statistics and R.  They are a computational scientist.    However, their background is in human genetics and running genome wide analysis using tools that work for human populations.   Where their gaps lie is in the genetics of mice and the different crosses and strains and the different statistical approaches that must be applied to each.  This person has attended the QTL mapping course and has been working with the software for a few years but is now getting involved in mapping qtl expression data. This course will be a great introduction to using eqtl data for qtl mapping as a next step in any project that has both gigamuga data and expression data, and what conclusion can be made with both sets of results. 


C. Juan Pablo

Juan Pablo is a reviewer.  He is established, mentors students and has published papers. But he wants to get a hands on approach on what his students and scientist do and to learn the mechanics of the software involved.  He has coding experience but it has been awhile so it may take awhile to get his footing.  His main research is using a set of back cross mice to establish the presence or absent of diabetes but also how gene expression changes between these two groups.  He wants to take a course to get the mechanics behind QTL mapping and how he can map expression data.   
